All right.
So let's go ahead and put everything that we've learned together.
So we've gone over the properties and we've gone over the rules for integrals so and this video will
actually go ahead and do problems that require all of those.
And I know you might be thinking well there's you know too many rules or too many properties.
Well once you start getting used to integrals it will become second nature.
So do not worry about that at all.
So just remember that you know when you're adding integrals or subtracting you can break those apart
and that you could put Konstanz on the outside.
And further rules we cover that recently and another video.
So just go ahead try to give it a shot if you can make this one work then don't worry about it.
You know I'm going to give you more problems that use all of these rules.
All right so for now let's go ahead and have you try to find this one.
So it says find the following integral in a row of x cubed minus X squared plus five dx.
Go ahead and pause the video and give it a shot.
All right so what do we have here.
So let me just rewrite it again.
So x cubed mine is x squared.
Plus five dx.
So we actually have a couple of functions that are adding and subtracting right.
X squared is subtracting from x cubed and 5 is adding to the x squared.
So all we can do here is remember we have a sum and different rule for integrals.
That tells you that you can actually find each individual integral for each individual function and
then keep the sign in between them.
So we can find the integral of this first one integral of x cubed DX minus the integral of x squared
and then plus integral of 5 dx.
All right so let's get each individual integral.
So for this first one we have a power function so we can increase and divide that will be X to the for
over 4 and we would typically do plus C but when you have different integrals like this what you do
is you do only one C at the end.
Right.
So we're just going to say X is the forth over for.
We're not going to say plus C because we'll add that at the end of everything.
All right.
So that is a first integral then we have minus.
Here we have a power function again.
So what we do is we increase and divide just like we did for the first one.
So X to the two becomes X to the three and then we divide by the same thing.
Right.
Perfect.
And then we do plus and then we have this constant remember that the integral of a constant equals the
constant times x.
So that is 5 x ends.
Now that we have three integrals we can finally do the plus C and this is our answer.
So for example in this one we had to use the sum and their friends property to be able to separate these
integrals and then we had to use the power rule for integrals for these two functions and the constant
rule for this last function.
So for integrals you're going to have to mix and match all these rules and properties.
But again it's really not too bad.
The main thing is knowing that you have to break these apart by using the sum and reference property
after that eschews power rule and constant rule.
Let's try another example.
All right so here's the next example.
We have integral of three over X minus X to the negative two plus three dx.
Go ahead and pause the video and give it a shot.
All right so let me just write it down here.
Three over X minus X to the negative two plus three.
All right.
So remember we're adding and subtracting functions so we can get the individual integral of each and
keep the sign.
So it was to the integral of this first one which is 3 overacts It's a three x dx and then we do minus
because we keep the sign the integral of x to the negative to
dx and then we finally do plus
interval of 3 dx.
All right.
So let's go ahead and check it out.
So for this first one integral of 3 over x.
So remember we have the constant multiple rule that says if a constant is multiplying your function
you can actually take out that constant to the outside and get the integral by itself.
And here we have this constant which is three That's multiplying this one over x.
So what we do is we take the three outside threes out here.
Integral of one over X so by the way I remember it kind of looks like the three on the X are at the
same level but in fact the three on the one are the same level.
Right.
Because the three was up here.
And we take it out.
So it disappears from the top.
So we have three times the integral of one of her x dx and then we have mine is so integral for this
one.
It's a power function we can use a power rule so we increase and divide.
Right.
So we have X to the negative 2 and then increase so plus 1 on the bottom.
Negative two plus one as well.
So that is increase and divide and we do plus And remember the integral of a constant is just the constant
times X so three which is a constant times x.
And remember we do a plus see at the end of everything but we're still not done.
We actually haven't done this interval yet.
So this will be three.
And what is the integral of one over x.
Remember this is the natural log of the absolute value of x.
This is a logarithmic rule.
So line of absolute value of x.
So we have this three times natural log of absolute value of x.
All right.
And then we have minus.
So what is X to the negative 2 plus 1 negative 2 plus 1 is negative 1 right.
Oh $2 and you pay 1 back then 0 1.
So this is X to the negative on over on the bottom the same thing negative 2 plus 1 is negative 1 plus
3x plus C..
All right and now let's simplify this a little bit.
This middle integral so we have three element of absolute value of x.
So what do we have here.
We have minus right.
But what happens is this fraction is negative as well.
Why.
Because the bottom is negative.
We have a negative one.
So the whole fraction is negative.
And remember that negative times a negative becomes a positive.
So instead of having this negative a negative it actually becomes plus.
All right.
Thats very important.
And I'll repeat it again when you have a negative times a negative.
The whole thing becomes a positive.
I'm not talking about this negative in the exponents.
That is something else I'm talking about this negative here.
And then the sign of the fraction when these two are multiplied.
Then it becomes a positive.
All right.
So plus X to the negative one.
And we don't have to mark this one on the bottom anymore because you know anything over 1 is just one.
And again this one multiplied with this gave us a positive.
So it's not negative 1 anymore.
It's actually just one.
All right.
And then we have plus 3x Plus see.
And then the last thing we want to do is remember that we don't like negative exponents.
So what we do is we bring it to the bottom by flipping the sign of the exponent.
So we have three L.N. of the absolute value of x plus.
How do we do this again to bring it down flip the sign of the exponents.
So we have a one on top on the bottom we have X to the one positive one because we flip the sign.
But again if it's a positive one we do not need to market.
We just put x.
All right.
And then finally plus 3x Plus see and this point we are done.
So remember the secret to doing these types of problems is to know that you have to break apart and
get each individual integral.
All right.
Once you do that after that it's basically applying rules and taking out Constance.
That's it.
So for this first one we had a constant.
So we took it out and that left us with three on the outside and one over X and the integral of one
of her X is a natural log of the absolute value of x.
This one was just a power function and this one was a constant.
And like I said here we encountered a situation where we had a negative times a negative.
So the whole thing becomes positive.
And finally we brought down this exponents to the bottom by flipping the sign.
All right.
So let's go ahead and do another example.
So here we have another integral integral of an X Minus One plus E to the 3x minus E to the 4 x dx.
Go ahead and pause the video and give it a shot.
All right so let's go ahead and do it together.
Let me rewrite this.
So it's an X minus 1 plus E to 3 x minus E to the 4 x dx
right.
And I learned my lesson I'm not going to do the problem over here because I've run out of space.
I'll start it over here.
All right.
So we're adding and subtracting integrals as you can see.
So what we're going to do as usual is to break it apart into individual integrals.
So we have an integral of 10x yak's.
That's the first one.
And then mynahs we have a minus here.
Integral of one D-Backs then we have a plus
integral of the 3x.
And then we have a minus integral of B for X and that's it.
So let's do each individual one.
All right.
So integral of 10x.
So here we have a constant multiple right.
We have this constant 10 multiplying x.
So we take out this 10 over here and integral of x dx.
So we just took out the 10 from inside the minus so integral of one interval of a constant.
Remember that what we do is we just take the constant and multiplied by X so that one times x perfects
right and moving on to the next.
Here we have to use the exponential rule for integrals right.
So remember that that says that if you have E to the K x K in this case is three then you have to do
one over k.
So one of three.
And then you rewrite this whole thing to the 3x.
That's it.
All right and then mine is Whoa check it out.
We actually have another exponential rule.
So same thing if you have E to the K x then you have 1 over K which is 4.
In this case remember K is the number multiplying the X and then we have this whole thing again.
Each to the 4 X and at the end remember it we always do this plus C great.
All right so let's go ahead and simplify.
So we have 10.
And remember we still haven't done this interval.
So what is the integral of x.
Or remember the integral of x is like saying the integral of x to the one we just don't market.
But the ones there.
So it's a simple power function and we can use our power rule and do increase and divide.
So X we increase it's a one plus one is two and divide by the same two.
All right and then minus one times X is just x plus.
And here remember that this would be OK if you have it as one over three to the 3 x.
But let's go ahead and put it another way.
Remember that multiplying by 1 to 3 is the same as dividing by three.
So on the top we have e 3 3x over 3.
All right.
This is the same as this minus.
And here will do the same thing.
Each of the four X on top which is this over four plus C.
All right.
Let's go ahead and simplify.
One last thing and that's the thing with these problems if you simplify one result then you have to
rewrite the whole thing.
Right.
But let's go ahead and finish that up.
So sand over to is five.
So we have five x squared.
And after that we just rewrite this whole part.
So a 5 x squared minus X plus E to 3 x over 3 minus E to the 4 x over 4 and then plus C and we are done.
All right so again key points is to break down the integrals and get the integral of each different
function.
Once you do that you know it becomes very clear where you need to do in this case we had a constant
multiple So you take it outside and then do the power.
In this case you have a constant.
So you just add the x and in these two other cases the last two we had the exponential rule.
So we went ahead and applied it to each one and that's how we got our final results.